rook/README.md, before:

# Popper workflows for SkyhookDM and Ceph Benchmarks

A set of [Popper](https://getpopper.io) workflows to automate large-scale tests and benchmarks of [SkyhookDM](skyhookdm.com) in a Kubernetes cluster.
Below given is an exhaustive guide on how to use the workflows to automate [Ceph](https://ceph.io/) experiments.

## Cloning the project

```bash
$ git clone --recursive https://github.com/uccross/skyhookdm-workflows
```

## Installing Popper

Popper is a container-native workflow execution and automation engine that takes a workflow definition in YAML and runs each step of the workflow inside containers. To install Popper,

```bash
$ python3 -m venv venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
$ pip install popper
```
> To install Popper with Docker, check [this](https://github.com/getpopper/popper#installation) out.

## Booting up a Kubernetes cluster in Cloudlab

```bash
# generate the .env file and populate it
$ cp .env.example .env 

# apply the environment variables to your shell
$ source .env

# boot up nodes in cloudlab
$ popper run -f workflows/nodes.yml setup

# deploy kubernetes and download the kube config
$ popper run -f workflows/kubernetes.yml setup
$ popper run -f workflows/kubernetes.yml copy-kube-config

# teardown kubernetes + nodes
$ popper run -f workflows/nodes.yml teardown
```

This set of `popper run` commands boot bare-metal nodes from CloudLab and deploy a production-ready Kubernetes cluster on them using [Kubespray](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubespray). The cluster can be tore down
by releasing the CloudLab nodes. Note that users need to properly populate the environment variables in the `.env` file for these workflows to work as they contain information like secret keys, private keys, passwords, etc.

> One can also use the workflow given [here](https://github.com/getpopper/kubernetes-cluster-setup-workflow) to boot nodes and deploy kubernetes.

## Setting up Vanilla Ceph cluster

```bash
# deploy the ceph cluster
$ popper run -f workflows/rook.yml setup-ceph

# download the ceph config
$ popper run -f workflows/rook.yml download-config

# teardown
$ popper run -f workflows/rook.yml teardown-ceph
```

To change the vanilla Ceph cluster into a SkyhookDM cluster, run the `setup-skyhook-ceph` step from the [`workflows/rook.yml`](https://github.com/uccross/skyhookdm-workflows/blob/master/rook/workflows/rook.yml) workflow.
This will update the Ceph config to load the tabular libraries and will update and restart all the daemons to use the [uccross/skyhookdm-ceph:v14.2.9](https://hub.docker.com/layers/uccross/skyhookdm-ceph/v14.2.9/images/sha256-05ad184557c2cfeed8b2caf048db2c1748dd38e9c322b2d3178bb6380e30509b?context=explore) image which is maintained here.

In general, if you need to upgrade the Ceph image in your Rook cluster using Popper, update the `{"spec": {"cephVersion": {"image": "myrepo/mycephimage"}}}` in the [`rook/cluster_ceph.yaml`](https://github.com/uccross/skyhookdm-workflows/blob/master/rook/rook/cluster_ceph.yaml) file and run the `setup-ceph` step.
The upgrade process is described in more detail [here](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/Documentation/ceph-upgrade.md#ceph-version-upgrades).

## Setting up SkyhookDM Ceph cluster using Rook

```bash
# deploy the skyhookDM cluster
$ popper run -f workflows/rook.yml setup-skyhook-ceph

# download the ceph config
$ popper run -f workflows/rook.yml download-config

# teardown
$ popper run -f workflows/rook.yml teardown-skyhook-ceph
```

This workflow sets up a SkyhookDM cluster using Rook. 
It can be also run to update a Ceph cluster to a SkyhookDM cluster. 
The Rook version that is currently used is `1.4`.

> The workflow given [here](https://github.com/uccross/skyhookdm-ceph-cls/blob/master/.popper.yml) can be run to build SkyhookDM and to build and push the SkyhookDM Docker image for use with Rook. Then the Ceph image can be updated in the [`rook/cluster_skyhook_ceph.yaml`](https://github.com/uccross/skyhookdm-workflows/blob/master/rook/rook/cluster_skyhook_ceph.yaml) and the `setup-skyhook-ceph` step can be run multiple times to update the SkyhookDM cluster.

## Setting up Prometheus Monitoring with Grafana Dashboard

```bash
# setup monitoring
$ popper run -f workflows/prometheus.yml setup

# teardown monitoring
$ popper run -f workflows/prometheus.yml teardown
```

This workflow deploys the Prometheus and Grafana operators in the cluster.
To access the Grafana dashboard, a local port e.g. `3000` needs to be mapped to the port on which the Grafana service is listening inside the cluster by doing,

```bash
$ kubectl --namespace monitoring port-forward svc/grafana 3000
```

Then, on browsing to `http://localhost:3000`, the Grafana dashboard can be accessed. 
To login to the dashboard for the first time, use `admin` as both username and password.

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33978990/92876578-e91b3e00-f427-11ea-8c0c-8b7887f9168b.png" height="250" width="550" />

## Performing RADOS and OSD benchmarks
```bash
$ popper run -f workflows/radosbench.yml -s _CLIENT=<client-hostname>
```

This workflow benchmarks the RADOS Object store and plots the latency, bandwidth and IOPS at varying IO depths over a given period of time for Sequential and Random R/W workloads. Example RADOS benchmark plots are shown below.
The node that needs to host the client pod can be controlled through the `CLIENT` variable.

Each of the OSD's write throughput and IOPS is also measured using the `ceph tell` benchmark tool. 
A set of example RADOS benchmark plots are shown below.

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33978990/92874999-2e3e7080-f426-11ea-8d78-7e82f841cf9b.png" height="300" width="450" />

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33978990/92875116-5332e380-f426-11ea-862b-237f20194506.png" height="300" width="450" />

## Running SkyhookDM benchmarks
```bash
$ popper run -f workflows/run_query.yml -s _CLIENT=<client-hostname>
```

This workflow runs queries over the TPC-H lineitem dataset at 1%, 10%, 100% selectivity in Arrow (currently not supported) and Flatbuffer format and plots the run time of the queries against selectivity. An example plot is shown below. It is recommended to deploy the client on a pod that doesn't host an OSD or MON to get the best results. This can be controlled by the `CLIENT` substitution variable given in the workflow.

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33978990/94709227-20b04280-0363-11eb-9e39-6cb493018e51.png" height="300" width="450" />

## Kubestone benchmarks

The `fio` and `iperf` benchmarks require [`kubestone`](https://kubestone.io/en/latest/) to be installed and a `kubestone` namespace to be created in the cluster.
Please follow the instructions given [here](https://kubestone.io/en/latest/quickstart/#installation) to install Kubestone in the cluster. The namespace can be created by doing [this](https://kubestone.io/en/latest/quickstart/#namespace) or you can just do the following,

```bash
# clone the `kubestone` repo
$ git clone https://github.com/xridge/kubestone

# build the definition and create
$ cd kubestone/config/default
$ kustomize build | kubectl create -f -

# create the `kubestone` namespace
$ kubectl create namespace kubestone
```

### `iperf`
```bash
# between server and client-1
$ popper run -f workflows/iperf.yml -s _SERVER=<server-hostname> -s _CLIENT=<client-one-hostname>

# between server and client-2
$ popper run -f workflows/iperf.yml -s _SERVER=<server-hostname> -s _CLIENT=<client-two-hostname>

# between server and client-3
$ popper run -f workflows/iperf.yml -s _SERVER=<server-hostname> -s _CLIENT=<client-three-hostname>
.
.
```
This workflow measures the link speed between the node allocated as the client and the node allocated as the server. The deployment of the server and client pods can be controlled by the `SERVER` and `CLIENT` substitution variables of the workflow. This workflow can be run multiple times to measure the link speed between different sets of nodes. An example plot for such a benchmark run is shown below.

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33978990/92874220-7315d780-f425-11ea-96af-c9aa9239a649.png" height="300" width="450" />

### `fio`
```bash
$ popper run -f workflows/fio.yml -s _HOSTNAME=<hostname-to-benchmark>
```
This workflow benchmarks the blockdevices of a node using `fio` and generates plots showing the bandwidth, latency and IOPS of of the candidate blockdevices at varying IO depths and R/W modes. The blockdevices from different nodes can be benchmarked by passing the hostname through the `HOSTNAME` substitution variable. The plot shown below is obtained by benchmarking the sequential reads of a blockdevice at IO depth 32 with 1m blocksize and 8 jobs.

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33978990/92878167-7b701180-f429-11ea-9a61-0f7bda767961.png" height="300" width="450" />

## Cleaning up the Kubernetes cluster

Once done with running the workflows and performing experiments, it is absolutely necessary to cleanup the ceph partitions and metadata directories created by Rook on the
underlying drives of the nodes in order to be able to deploy and use Ceph again. If the underlying drives are not cleaned up, further Ceph deployments using Rook might not be possible.
[This](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/Documentation/ceph-teardown.md) guide consists of the commands that need to be run on all the nodes of the Kubernetes cluster which were used by a previous Ceph deployment.
A short form of that is available [here](https://github.com/uccross/skyhookdm-workflows/blob/master/rook/guides/cleanup.md#cleaning-up-the-cluster).

## Case Study

We ran the above workflows to benchmark a SkyhookDM deployment in the River SSL Kubernetes cluster. The results of the experiments can be found [here](https://github.com/JayjeetAtGithub/skyhookdm-benchmark-ssl). Please find a detailed report on the project and the experiments performed [here](https://github.com/JayjeetAtGithub/skyhookdm-benchmark-ssl/blob/master/report/report.pdf).

Commit message:

add instruction on how to use a prebuilt k8s cluster

rook/README.md, after:

# Popper workflows for SkyhookDM and Ceph Benchmarks

A set of [Popper](https://getpopper.io) workflows to automate large-scale tests and benchmarks of [SkyhookDM](skyhookdm.com) in a Kubernetes cluster.
Below given is an exhaustive guide on how to use the workflows to automate [Ceph](https://ceph.io/) experiments.

## Cloning the project

```bash
$ git clone --recursive https://github.com/uccross/skyhookdm-workflows
```

## Installing Popper

Popper is a container-native workflow execution and automation engine that takes a workflow definition in YAML and runs each step of the workflow inside containers. To install Popper,

```bash
$ python3 -m venv venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
$ pip install popper
```
> To install Popper with Docker, check [this](https://github.com/getpopper/popper#installation) out.

## Booting up a Kubernetes cluster in Cloudlab

> If a Kubernetes cluster is already available, copy the Kubernetes config file to a `kubeconfig/config` file and skip this step.

```bash
# generate the .env file and populate it
$ cp .env.example .env 

# apply the environment variables to your shell
$ source .env

# boot up nodes in cloudlab
$ popper run -f workflows/nodes.yml setup

# deploy kubernetes and download the kube config
$ popper run -f workflows/kubernetes.yml setup
$ popper run -f workflows/kubernetes.yml copy-kube-config

# teardown kubernetes + nodes
$ popper run -f workflows/nodes.yml teardown
```

This set of `popper run` commands boot bare-metal nodes from CloudLab and deploy a production-ready Kubernetes cluster on them using [Kubespray](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubespray). The cluster can be tore down
by releasing the CloudLab nodes. Note that users need to properly populate the environment variables in the `.env` file for these workflows to work as they contain information like secret keys, private keys, passwords, etc.

> One can also use the workflow given [here](https://github.com/getpopper/kubernetes-cluster-setup-workflow) to boot nodes and deploy kubernetes.

## Setting up Vanilla Ceph cluster

```bash
# deploy the ceph cluster
$ popper run -f workflows/rook.yml setup-ceph

# download the ceph config
$ popper run -f workflows/rook.yml download-config

# teardown
$ popper run -f workflows/rook.yml teardown-ceph
```

To change the vanilla Ceph cluster into a SkyhookDM cluster, run the `setup-skyhook-ceph` step from the [`workflows/rook.yml`](https://github.com/uccross/skyhookdm-workflows/blob/master/rook/workflows/rook.yml) workflow.
This will update the Ceph config to load the tabular libraries and will update and restart all the daemons to use the [uccross/skyhookdm-ceph:v14.2.9](https://hub.docker.com/layers/uccross/skyhookdm-ceph/v14.2.9/images/sha256-05ad184557c2cfeed8b2caf048db2c1748dd38e9c322b2d3178bb6380e30509b?context=explore) image which is maintained here.

In general, if you need to upgrade the Ceph image in your Rook cluster using Popper, update the `{"spec": {"cephVersion": {"image": "myrepo/mycephimage"}}}` in the [`rook/cluster_ceph.yaml`](https://github.com/uccross/skyhookdm-workflows/blob/master/rook/rook/cluster_ceph.yaml) file and run the `setup-ceph` step.
The upgrade process is described in more detail [here](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/Documentation/ceph-upgrade.md#ceph-version-upgrades).

## Setting up SkyhookDM Ceph cluster using Rook

```bash
# deploy the skyhookDM cluster
$ popper run -f workflows/rook.yml setup-skyhook-ceph

# download the ceph config
$ popper run -f workflows/rook.yml download-config

# teardown
$ popper run -f workflows/rook.yml teardown-skyhook-ceph
```

This workflow sets up a SkyhookDM cluster using Rook. 
It can be also run to update a Ceph cluster to a SkyhookDM cluster. 
The Rook version that is currently used is `1.4`.

> The workflow given [here](https://github.com/uccross/skyhookdm-ceph-cls/blob/master/.popper.yml) can be run to build SkyhookDM and to build and push the SkyhookDM Docker image for use with Rook. Then the Ceph image can be updated in the [`rook/cluster_skyhook_ceph.yaml`](https://github.com/uccross/skyhookdm-workflows/blob/master/rook/rook/cluster_skyhook_ceph.yaml) and the `setup-skyhook-ceph` step can be run multiple times to update the SkyhookDM cluster.

## Setting up Prometheus Monitoring with Grafana Dashboard

```bash
# setup monitoring
$ popper run -f workflows/prometheus.yml setup

# teardown monitoring
$ popper run -f workflows/prometheus.yml teardown
```

This workflow deploys the Prometheus and Grafana operators in the cluster.
To access the Grafana dashboard, a local port e.g. `3000` needs to be mapped to the port on which the Grafana service is listening inside the cluster by doing,

```bash
$ kubectl --namespace monitoring port-forward svc/grafana 3000
```

Then, on browsing to `http://localhost:3000`, the Grafana dashboard can be accessed. 
To login to the dashboard for the first time, use `admin` as both username and password.

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33978990/92876578-e91b3e00-f427-11ea-8c0c-8b7887f9168b.png" height="250" width="550" />

## Performing RADOS and OSD benchmarks
```bash
$ popper run -f workflows/radosbench.yml -s _CLIENT=<client-hostname>
```

This workflow benchmarks the RADOS Object store and plots the latency, bandwidth and IOPS at varying IO depths over a given period of time for Sequential and Random R/W workloads. Example RADOS benchmark plots are shown below.
The node that needs to host the client pod can be controlled through the `CLIENT` variable.

Each of the OSD's write throughput and IOPS is also measured using the `ceph tell` benchmark tool. 
A set of example RADOS benchmark plots are shown below.

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33978990/92874999-2e3e7080-f426-11ea-8d78-7e82f841cf9b.png" height="300" width="450" />

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33978990/92875116-5332e380-f426-11ea-862b-237f20194506.png" height="300" width="450" />

## Running SkyhookDM benchmarks
```bash
$ popper run -f workflows/run_query.yml -s _CLIENT=<client-hostname>
```

This workflow runs queries over the TPC-H lineitem dataset at 1%, 10%, 100% selectivity in Arrow (currently not supported) and Flatbuffer format and plots the run time of the queries against selectivity. An example plot is shown below. It is recommended to deploy the client on a pod that doesn't host an OSD or MON to get the best results. This can be controlled by the `CLIENT` substitution variable given in the workflow.

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33978990/94709227-20b04280-0363-11eb-9e39-6cb493018e51.png" height="300" width="450" />

## Kubestone benchmarks

The `fio` and `iperf` benchmarks require [`kubestone`](https://kubestone.io/en/latest/) to be installed and a `kubestone` namespace to be created in the cluster.
Please follow the instructions given [here](https://kubestone.io/en/latest/quickstart/#installation) to install Kubestone in the cluster. The namespace can be created by doing [this](https://kubestone.io/en/latest/quickstart/#namespace) or you can just do the following,

```bash
# clone the `kubestone` repo
$ git clone https://github.com/xridge/kubestone

# build the definition and create
$ cd kubestone/config/default
$ kustomize build | kubectl create -f -

# create the `kubestone` namespace
$ kubectl create namespace kubestone
```

### `iperf`
```bash
# between server and client-1
$ popper run -f workflows/iperf.yml -s _SERVER=<server-hostname> -s _CLIENT=<client-one-hostname>

# between server and client-2
$ popper run -f workflows/iperf.yml -s _SERVER=<server-hostname> -s _CLIENT=<client-two-hostname>

# between server and client-3
$ popper run -f workflows/iperf.yml -s _SERVER=<server-hostname> -s _CLIENT=<client-three-hostname>
.
.
```
This workflow measures the link speed between the node allocated as the client and the node allocated as the server. The deployment of the server and client pods can be controlled by the `SERVER` and `CLIENT` substitution variables of the workflow. This workflow can be run multiple times to measure the link speed between different sets of nodes. An example plot for such a benchmark run is shown below.

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33978990/92874220-7315d780-f425-11ea-96af-c9aa9239a649.png" height="300" width="450" />

### `fio`
```bash
$ popper run -f workflows/fio.yml -s _HOSTNAME=<hostname-to-benchmark>
```
This workflow benchmarks the blockdevices of a node using `fio` and generates plots showing the bandwidth, latency and IOPS of of the candidate blockdevices at varying IO depths and R/W modes. The blockdevices from different nodes can be benchmarked by passing the hostname through the `HOSTNAME` substitution variable. The plot shown below is obtained by benchmarking the sequential reads of a blockdevice at IO depth 32 with 1m blocksize and 8 jobs.

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33978990/92878167-7b701180-f429-11ea-9a61-0f7bda767961.png" height="300" width="450" />

## Cleaning up the Kubernetes cluster

Once done with running the workflows and performing experiments, it is absolutely necessary to cleanup the ceph partitions and metadata directories created by Rook on the
underlying drives of the nodes in order to be able to deploy and use Ceph again. If the underlying drives are not cleaned up, further Ceph deployments using Rook might not be possible.
[This](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/Documentation/ceph-teardown.md) guide consists of the commands that need to be run on all the nodes of the Kubernetes cluster which were used by a previous Ceph deployment.
A short form of that is available [here](https://github.com/uccross/skyhookdm-workflows/blob/master/rook/guides/cleanup.md#cleaning-up-the-cluster).

## Case Study

We ran the above workflows to benchmark a SkyhookDM deployment in the River SSL Kubernetes cluster. The results of the experiments can be found [here](https://github.com/JayjeetAtGithub/skyhookdm-benchmark-ssl). Please find a detailed report on the project and the experiments performed [here](https://github.com/JayjeetAtGithub/skyhookdm-benchmark-ssl/blob/master/report/report.pdf).
