cloudlab/README.md, before:

# Deploy Ceph on CloudLab

A workflow for deploying Ceph on CloudLab using `geni-lib` and 
Ansible; assumes basic knowledge of how these two tools work.

The workflow in [`wf.yml`](./wf.yml) deploys Ceph on a 
[Cloudlab][cloudlab] allocation using [`ceph-ansible`][ca]. The 
workflow consists of the following steps:

  * **`allocate resources`**. Request for resources to CloudLab and 
    wait for them to be instantiated. The configuration is specified 
    in the [`geni/config.py`](./geni/config.py)

  * **`generate ansible inventory`**. Generates an Ansible inventory 
    out of the GENI manifest produced by the previous `allocate 
    resources` step. This is used by the subsequent `deploy` step.

  * **`deploy`**. Deploys Ceph by running a playbook from the 
    [`ansible/playbooks/`](./ansible/playbooks) folder. After this 
    step executes, the resulting `ceph.conf` file is placed in 
    [`ansible/fetch/`](./ansible/fetch).

In addition to the above, subsequent steps can be added to the 
workflow in order to run tests, benchmarks or other workloads that 
work on Ceph. Take a look at the [`test`](../../test) folder for 
examples. This workflow also includes a (commented out) `teardown` 
step that releases the allocated resources in CloudLab and can be 
invoked to release resources.

## Usage

To execute this workflow:

 1. Clone this repository or copy the contents of this folder into 
    your project:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/uccross/skyhookdm-workflows
    cd skyhookdm-workflows/cloudlab
    ```

 2. Define the secrets expected by the workflow, declared in the 
    `secrets` attribute of steps:

    ```bash
    export GENI_FRAMEWORK=emulab-ch2
    export GENI_PROJECT=<project>
    export GENI_USERNAME=<username>
    export GENI_KEY_PASSPHRASE='<password>'
    export GENI_PUBKEY_DATA=$(cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub | base64)
    export GENI_CERT_DATA=$(cat ~/.ssh/cloudlab.pem | base64)

    export ANSIBLE_SSH_KEY_DATA=$(cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa | base64)
    ```

    See [the GENI image README][gd] for more information about the 
    secrets related to the GENI steps; similarly [here][cad] for the 
    Ansible step.

 3. Tweak the following to your needs:

     * The experiment name in the [GENI config 
       file](./geni/config.py). Changing the name of the experiment 
       avoids having another member of your project running the script 
       and resulting in name clashes.

     * The number of nodes, and how they are to be grouped in terms of 
       their roles (`osd`, `mon`, `rgw`, etc.). This is also specified 
       in the GENI [config file](./geni/config.py).

     * Specify in the `deploy` step which Ansible playbook is to be 
       executed (see the [`ansible/playbooks/`](./ansible/playbooks) 
       folder. Multiple playbooks may exist, depending on what type of 
       deployment is needed (e.g. ).

     * Tweak Ceph variables for the cluster available in the 
       [`ansible/group_vars`](./ansible/group_vars) folder.

 4. Execute the workflow by doing:

    ```bash
    popper run -f wf.yml
    ```

For more information on Popper, visit 
<https://github.com/systemslab/popper>.

[cloudlab]: https://cloudlab.us
[ca]: https://github.com/ceph/ceph-ansible
[gd]: https://github.com/getpopper/library/tree/master/geni
[cad]: https://github.com/getpopper/library/tree/master/ansible
[ca-docs]: http://docs.ceph.com/ceph-ansible/master/

Commit message:

cloudlab: add note on format of GENI_PROJECT
this variable is expected to be in all lower case

cloudlab/README.md, after:

# Deploy Ceph on CloudLab

A workflow for deploying Ceph on CloudLab using `geni-lib` and 
Ansible; assumes basic knowledge of how these two tools work.

The workflow in [`wf.yml`](./wf.yml) deploys Ceph on a 
[Cloudlab][cloudlab] allocation using [`ceph-ansible`][ca]. The 
workflow consists of the following steps:

  * **`allocate resources`**. Request for resources to CloudLab and 
    wait for them to be instantiated. The configuration is specified 
    in the [`geni/config.py`](./geni/config.py)

  * **`generate ansible inventory`**. Generates an Ansible inventory 
    out of the GENI manifest produced by the previous `allocate 
    resources` step. This is used by the subsequent `deploy` step.

  * **`deploy`**. Deploys Ceph by running a playbook from the 
    [`ansible/playbooks/`](./ansible/playbooks) folder. After this 
    step executes, the resulting `ceph.conf` file is placed in 
    [`ansible/fetch/`](./ansible/fetch).

In addition to the above, subsequent steps can be added to the 
workflow in order to run tests, benchmarks or other workloads that 
work on Ceph. Take a look at the [`test`](../../test) folder for 
examples. This workflow also includes a (commented out) `teardown` 
step that releases the allocated resources in CloudLab and can be 
invoked to release resources.

## Usage

To execute this workflow:

 1. Clone this repository or copy the contents of this folder into 
    your project:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/uccross/skyhookdm-workflows
    cd skyhookdm-workflows/cloudlab
    ```

 2. Define the secrets expected by the workflow, declared in the 
    `secrets` attribute of steps:

    ```bash
    export GENI_FRAMEWORK=emulab-ch2
    export GENI_PROJECT=<project>
    export GENI_USERNAME=<username>
    export GENI_KEY_PASSPHRASE='<password>'
    export GENI_PUBKEY_DATA=$(cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub | base64)
    export GENI_CERT_DATA=$(cat ~/.ssh/cloudlab.pem | base64)

    export ANSIBLE_SSH_KEY_DATA=$(cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa | base64)
    ```

    See [the GENI image README][gd] for more information about the 
    secrets related to the GENI steps; similarly [here][cad] for the 
    Ansible step. **NOTE:** the value of `GENI_PROJECT` is expected
    to be all lower case.

 3. Tweak the following to your needs:

     * The experiment name in the [GENI config 
       file](./geni/config.py). Changing the name of the experiment 
       avoids having another member of your project running the script 
       and resulting in name clashes.

     * The number of nodes, and how they are to be grouped in terms of 
       their roles (`osd`, `mon`, `rgw`, etc.). This is also specified 
       in the GENI [config file](./geni/config.py).

     * Specify in the `deploy` step which Ansible playbook is to be 
       executed (see the [`ansible/playbooks/`](./ansible/playbooks) 
       folder. Multiple playbooks may exist, depending on what type of 
       deployment is needed (e.g. ).

     * Tweak Ceph variables for the cluster available in the 
       [`ansible/group_vars`](./ansible/group_vars) folder.

 4. Execute the workflow by doing:

    ```bash
    popper run -f wf.yml
    ```

For more information on Popper, visit 
<https://github.com/systemslab/popper>.

[cloudlab]: https://cloudlab.us
[ca]: https://github.com/ceph/ceph-ansible
[gd]: https://github.com/getpopper/library/tree/master/geni
[cad]: https://github.com/getpopper/library/tree/master/ansible
[ca-docs]: http://docs.ceph.com/ceph-ansible/master/
